You are going to handle a lot
of files with Python.
This is a common thing that we do.
PDFs, CSVs, JSons, Excel file
and so many other formats that
I even don't know about them.
There are so many things
and Python handles everything,
but not natively.
There are different libraries that
actually helps you to understand
the whole process of them
and don't even worry about them.
For example, Pandas is one such
library which handles CSVs
and Excels and PDFs and so many
other formats super easily.
You don't even sweat at a little bit.
You just say, pandas,
opencsvs and open Python and just
provide the path and it
does everything for you.
And that's majorly is the job.
But you also should know how
to natively open all the files.
And that's exactly what
we're going to do.
In this video.
We'll see what are the
precautionary things you have
to take here while opening up
the file, what can go wrong and
how you can actually fix them,
and different ways of opening
up the file.
That's exactly what we'll be doing.
So let me take you onto the screen.
This is also a pretty fun lecture
to be honest, and you're going
to enjoy this one as well.
Let's close all of this and we'll
just open up a new file.
So since there we go, hopefully
good enough, I'll create a new file
and call this one as what?
0808.
This one is file handling, of course.
All right, now let me walk you
through what happens in this one.
And notice here we don't have
any other file or text file
into this one, but we want
to actually open up something.
Let's see what happens in that case.
Let's just say I want
to open up a file.
To open up any file, you
simply have an open method.
Yes, it's available directly
in the Python.
It's a file descriptor, which
means you can just open up a file.
You have to provide the file name
as well as in the mode
in which you want to open the file.
You.
And if you read more
of the documentation, they tell you
more about the modes of it.
Like you can open this up.
Notice, here they are having this W
for writing the mode, X.
So many modes are there,
hardly anybody uses them.
They are just basics.
Now that with the topic we have.
All right, so which
file you want to open?
I want to open a file order
Txt, but that file doesn't
exist in this folder.
You're absolutely correct.
Let's see if I want to open
this up into the right.
And as you can see, so many modes.
Write, write plus write plus tea.
Nobody remembers all of them.
I just know W means write.
And then I want to store
the reference of it into a variable.
Let's call this one as a file.
And I want to write
something into this.
So for this I can just say
file dot and notice here,
buffer close, close, detach.
So many things.
I just want to write
something into it.
There we go.
And I go ahead and say masala
chai and that will be two cups.
Two cups.
There we go.
Now what happened at this point,
let's just say when you come to
line number three, there is a code
which somehow happened and this
has crashed your program.
This is really bad.
Why you might be asking
the reason why this is bad is
this is your file.
So if I go ahead and.
Let's just say we have
a simple file, this is your file,
very teeny tiny one.
But this is your file
and this is your computer memory.
So if I go ahead and write
this, this is memory.
And any single time you try
to open up a file, it actually
takes this file from disk and loads
this file in the memory.
This is what we have done so far.
We have loaded this file
in the memory.
We are trying to write
that in the memory.
But just before we were trying
to just remove it from the memory
and put it into the disk again,
our program crashed.
Lot of things can happen.
This file entirely might corrupt.
This might corrupt some portion
of our memory so that other
program might get affected.
Hey, we are in a sensitive zone.
We are in the memory.
So anything happens at this position
is really, really bad.
You shouldn't do it like this.
So what could be the other thing?
The taking of reference is
of no problem.
Once you are writing the file or
doing something sensitive
operation that can be problem or
even you can open the file hole
in a closed sensitive manner.
I can just go ahead and take
this and I can say, hey, I want
to just go ahead and use try.
So.
So let's try to write into the file
and once we are all done, we can
go ahead and use finally in this.
And with the finally I can go ahead
and take this file and close this.
No matter what happens,
finally we just close the file.
Can we move this reference
also inside the try block?
Probably yes, we can actually
go ahead and do this.
Let's go ahead and try this.
What happens in this case
if I go ahead and say Python 3 this
will be a 08 and notice it.
So if you will notice closely,
which is little difficult.
So this actually creates an order.
Txt file?
Yeah, it didn't exist before.
So I'll just go ahead
and remove this again.
We can run the program
again, no problem.
I'll just go ahead and delete
this again just to show you
this file doesn't exist.
But when I run this now, there we go.
Order.
Txt magically appear.
We have created a file and we
have handled it gracefully.
But there is another way,
the modern way of handling this.
I'll keep all of this file with
you, all of the code with you, so
that you can use it later on.
And there's another way if you
don't want to use Try catch,
especially just with the file.
Python has a new operator known as
with this automatically
wraps everything in the Try
Catch does everything.
I'll show you behind
the scene as well.
Now you can just go
ahead and say open.
What do you want to open?
I want to open.
Open.
I want to open a file name as order.
Txt or orders.
Txt, whatever you want to open.
I want to open that up
into the right mode.
There we go.
And I will just say as file.
So instead of taking the variable
just like this, the syntax
is much simpler, easier.
Then I can just go ahead
and say I want to write
some order into this file.
I'll open this up and this
time I will say ginger T.
Ginger T.
And the ginger T will be four cups.
Four cups is good enough.
And that's it.
That is the whole code.
You don't close it, you
does nothing at all.
It happens everything safely
and it works magically.
It does everything behind
the scene for you.
So let's go ahead and delete
the order Txt again
and try it again one more time.
This is the modern
way, my favorite way.
And everybody uses this way.
So notice here everything
happens nicely easily.
Ginger teacup.
Now, what happens behind the scene is
something that you should also know
as soon as you take this file.
This file is an interesting one.
So if I go ahead and take this file,
this file variable is interesting.
As soon as you take a reference
of the context of the file,
it actually invokes a dunder.
There is another one dunder,
it says underscore, underscore,
enter underscore,
underscore and it executes.
This is one dunder which as soon as
you open up the file, this starts.
And as soon as you close
this file, this goes ahead
and runs another dunder.
If I can just unselect that.
And that says exit.
Yeah.
So like everything that you are
doing, appending the file, writing
into this, loading the memory.
This is one which is responsible
for loading this up in the memory.
This is the one which is responsible
for moving it out.
When you actually go ahead
and do this safely, like file
close, this is the dunder
which gets called FileExit.
Nobody uses that, but it
automatically closes the file.
While in the other hand, if you
read the documentation about the.
With this actually calls all these
dunders automatically for you.
So you don't have to worry about
closing the file, doing anything.
It just happens out
of the box and that is it.
You can open up literally any
file, but the format of supporting
the text is the easiest one.
But when you want to open the binary
files, you shouldn't be opening
up with the raw Python.
There are libraries like Pillow
and others which are designed for
specifically this purpose.
If you want to open CSV, we
have Pandas and other thousands
of libraries which can
actually do the job better.
So my recommendation is
beyond this, having this is
just a wastage of time.
You should be exploring
the libraries.
You know the syntax, you know
the behind the scene of what dunders
are actually responsible, what
can be the gotchas of doing this.
But apart from this, that is it.
That's majorly it.
Now surely some people discuss more
about the context and local context.
I don't think that's
necessary as of now.
Surely once you will need them,
you'll get to know more about them.
But I usually don't go much
beyond this, otherwise students
get too confused in that
this is it very simple lecture.
You, you understand the whole concept
behind the scene and that is it.
That is all you need.
Don't worry too much about that.
All right, that is it for this video.
Let's go ahead and catch
up in the next one.